= flood

Flood is a Ruby library to limit events to a count/time ratio.

= Installation

Install the gem using github as the source:

    gem install nedski-flood -s http://gems.github.com
    
When requiring, use 'flood' as the gem name:

    require 'flood'

= Introduction

There are many situations when it's desirable to limit events that occur in a
given time period. This library provides a framework for implementing rate
limits.

Given a time interval and a maximum number of events that can occur in that
period, the library determines whether the event should be permitted.

= Storage

If you want flood control to persist across invocations of a script you must
save the data. The storage method returns the flood data; you have to handle
storage. To load stored flood data, call the storage= method with the flood
data as a parameter.

== Examples

A monitoring script should send no more than alert 1 email every 10 minutes.

      email_limit = 1
      email_interval = 10 * 60 # interval in seconds
      flood = FloodControl.new(email_limit, email_interval)
     
      if (flood.check() == 0)
        send_email
      end

A form should only accept 5 submissions from a single IP address every hour.

      submit_limit = 5
      submit_interval = 60 * 60 # interval in seconds
      flood = FloodControl.new(submit_limit, submit_interval)

      if (flood.check(ip_address) == 0)
        send_email
      else
        show_sorry_page
      end

Users have varying limits based on group.

      TODO: Variable limits example
      
Save and load flood data for persistence across invocations.

      TODO: Persistence example


== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history. (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. 

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009 Neil Kohl. See LICENSE for details.
